               Tank Wars
               Release 3.2
               Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 Kenneth Morse
               All Rights Reserved
               -----------------------------------------------

     NOTE: This game requires a VGA or MCGA video system to
     operate.  Your computer must be capable of 320x200
     resolution with 256 simultaneous colors.

DESCRIPTION:  This is a game for 1 to 10 players.  Opponents
     attempt to destroy each others tanks by firing various
     weapons at them.  There are also 7 computer intelligences
     available to compete against.

FILE NAMES:  This program was written under the working title of
     BOMB, as the files are still called.  However, due to the
     fact that there was already a game of that name, I have
     changed the name to Tank Wars.  Since Tank Wars has been out
     for over a year with no complaints, Tank Wars will remain
     named Tank Wars.  The files will continue to be named BOMB
     for convenience of previous users.

REQUIREMENTS:  This program runs in 320x200x256 color mode.  It
     requires that a VGA or MCGA monitor is connected, and is
     running as the current monitor.  A mouse is not required,
     but utilized if present and 100% Microsoft compatible. (I
     have had some troubles with Genius Mice.)

SHAREWARE:  TANK WARS is distributed as Shareware.  You are free
     to try the game and make copies for others.  If you continue
     to use the game, however, you are required to pay the author
     a registration fee of $10. Please include any comments you
     have.  Registered users will be added to my mailing list,
     and will be notified of major new releases of this program.

FILES:  The following files are included in this package:

     BOMB.EXE:      Main File
     BOMB.OVR:      Overlay Code
     BOMB.TXT:      This File
     BOMB.DOC:      Documentation
     REVISION.HST:  List of changes
     BOMB1.RAW:     Graphics file
     BOMB2.RAW:     Graphics file
     BOMBCFG.EXE:   Configuration Program
     BOMB.ICO:      Icon file for Windows 3.0 users.
     BOMBCFG.ICO:   Icon file for Windows 3.0 users.
     BOMB.ICP:      Icon file for OS/2 users.
     BOMBCFG.ICP:   Icon file for OS/2 users.
     BOMBCFG.HLP:   On-line Configuration Help

     All previously listed files are Copyrighted and may not be
     modified in any way for any purpose without the author's
     written consent.

          If the file BOMB.CFG was included with the package you
     received I suggest you erase it immediately.  This will
     prevent you from starting up with somebody else's options,
     which may not be optimum for your system.

SUPPORT:  Currently electronic support will be provided to
     everybody.  I can be reached on Prodigy at TGTM35B, and on
     Compuserve at 76427,3305.  Internet users can reach me at my
     CompuServe address.  My mailbox address is listed at the end
     of this file.  Written (non electronic) questions will be
     answered for all registered users, and currently for non
     registered users who provide a self addressed stamped
     envelope or CIS or Prodigy ID so that I can respond at
     minimum cost.  Policy regarding non registered users is
     subject to change at any time without notification. (Just a
     legal precaution, I don't expect to.)

TECHNICAL INFO:  This program has been tested on very few
     machines.  It was designed on a 16Mhz PS/2 65SX, with 12MB
     of memory.  Thus it is almost sure to work on another 65SX. 
     Previous versions have become widespread, with few or no
     problems, and I expect this to continue with V3.0. I have
     had some problems with Genius Mice, and Tandy Keyboards, and
     I am looking into the cause. 

GRAPHICS FILES:  It is not necessary to have BOMB1.RAW and
     BOMB2.RAW to play the game.  If you need the disk space,
     delete BOMB1.RAW.  This will cause the program to only load
     BOMB2.RAW and the title screen will be less spectacular. 
     Deleting BOMB2.RAW causes the title screen to be skipped
     altogether.

MICROSOFT WINDOWS & OS/2:  Currently Tank Wars will run
     adequately under Microsoft Windows 3.0, 3.1, and OS/2 GA
     release.  Under these environments the game may appear slow
     and sluggish, and the background may jerk along instead of
     scrolling smoothly.  If you can, I advise you run Tank Wars
     in straight DOS, not in a multitasking environment.  If you
     feel you must run under Windows, you MUST set it up to run
     Full Screen, and Exclusive is highly recommended.  You may
     also have to set BOSS screen memory to 63K in order to use
     the boss screen function.  Also you may wish to disable
     background palette rotation to smooth things out (on slower
     computers).  As to OS/2, I have been told that it will run,
     but nothing more.  If you have problems, disable background
     execution (from DOS Settings) and run it with as few other
     applications open as possible. You also may wish to disable
     background movement, as I am not sure how OS/2 handles
     Vertical Retrace and Palette interrupts.

EXTERNAL SOUND SUPPORT:  I am currently working on support for
     MIDI compatible systems.  In fact, I did have my MIDI code
     in Tank Wars, and it did work on my system.  The problem is
     that this code crashed every other system it was tested on. 
     I have currently commented out that code to decrease the
     code size for version 3.0.  As soon as I get the code
     bulletproofed I will uncomment it for the next version.  As
     there are many different MIDI systems available, I would
     appreciate your help in making Tank Wars as universally
     compatible as possible. I currently have the specs for only
     two systems, my IBM PS/2 with a Roland MPU-IMC card
     connected to a SC-55 SoundCanvas, and thanks to Ronald
     Lepper I have info on the Roland LAPC-1.  These two will
     definitely be supported.  For any other system I will need
     more information about the device.  I would greatly
     appreciate it if anyone could provide to me, either over
     CompuServe or through the US Mail information on the device
     they have.  This is the only way to guarantee that Tank Wars
     will in the future support your card. 
          As to the ever popular Sound Blaster, I will consider
     supporting it as soon as Creative Labs gets its act together
     and comes out with its promised MCA Sound Blaster Pro so I
     can test it on my system.  I will support the Adlib portion
     of the SBP if someone will provide me with the necessary
     information.


VIDEO CARD ACCESS:  The background palette movements you (should)
     see during the game may require some fine tuning.  You only
     need to read this if the background does not move, its
     movement slows down the rest of the system, or the movement
     causes fuzz or black bars on the screen.  There are various
     options in BOMBCFG for adjusting the way which Tank Wars
     interfaces with your video card, and the description of each
     option can be found in BOMBCFG by pressing F1 on the
     appropriate menu.  In general, (less technically) this is
     what each option will do.

     The following three options are mutually exclusive:

     Video Retrace Interrupt - Tank Wars will work with your
          video card to move the background.  When the video card
          begins a vertical retrace, it will tell Tank Wars, and
          Tank Wars will change the background.  This option is
          the fastest and smoothest of the two, and tends to keep
          all interference off the screen.  One possible problem
          is that many computers do not have a Vertical Retrace
          Interrupt.  Also, a few mice use IRQ2, the same one
          that the vertical retrace signal is sent on, this can
          cause the mouse to lock up when this option is
          selected.
     Timer Interrupt - Tank Wars will work with your system timer
          to move the background.  Every 18.2 seconds the timer
          will signal Tank Wars to move the background.  When
          this is set the interference could happen anywhere on
          the screen, and the palette will move more slowly.  On
          some computers selecting this may cause your system
          clock to be off when you exit Tank Wars.
     Not Active - The backgrounds will not move.  Select this if
          your computer does not have a Vertical Interrupt, and
          if selecting Time Interrupt unbearably messes up your
          system clock.

     The remaining options are On/Off toggles:

     Direct Video Port Manipulation - This tells Tank Wars
          whether to use its own routines to move the background,
          or your computer's.  When unchecked Tank Wars will use
          BIOS which is usually slower, and tends to create
          moving black bars across the screen.  When checked Tank
          Wars will use its own routines, which tend to be much
          faster, and cause less interference, at most only a bit
          of roaming snow.

     Crude Palette I/O - This tells Tank Wars whether or not to
          let any interference fall where it may, or try to lock
          it at the top of the screen.  When this option is
          unchecked, Tank Wars will lock any interference at the
          top of the screen, significantly slowing down the game.
          When this option is checked, the interference will roam
          the screen.

     Note: Unless you completely understand what I have just
          said, or you have a problem, you should leave the above
          two options checked, and Interface set to Vertical
          Retrace.

MEMORY:  The memory requirements of Tank Wars vary.  Different
     systems require different amounts of memory to save the Boss
     Screen, so different amounts a memory will be set aside for
     that purpose.  The remaining memory will be allocated for
     the overlay manager, and the more the better.  If available
     Tank Wars will load the overlay file into EMS, removing the
     need to swap to disk, but not the need to have free
     conventional memory for overlays.  Tank Wars can get by on
     very little memory, but may preform poorly under low memory
     conditions.

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS:  I would like to thank Borland, for without
     Turbo Pascal, this program could never have been written.  I
     believe that Borland has the best technical support of any
     company in existence.  They continue to help, even when you
     get on their nerves.  I would also like to thank Microsoft,
     for I could not have written this so easily without a multi-
     tasking environment.  I also would like to thank WordPerfect
     Corp. for WordPerfect with which I wrote these files.  I
     would like to thank Chris Sparks and Brett Moseley for their
     endless hours of beta testing and contributed ideas.  Also I
     would like to thank all the users who have contributed
     ideas, and helped in testing Tank Wars.  Special thanks to
     Aaron Johnson who aided in solving the ATI bug and Robin
     Rudge who provided the equations for Wind Master.


          This program is distributed as Shareware. It is not
     free software.  You are free to try the game and make copies
     for others.  If you continue to use this game beyond a
     reasonable trial period, you are required to register it
     with the author.  In return you will be notified of all
     major releases, and will own a legal copy of the program.
     Send Registrations to:

               KENNY MORSE
               11800 SILENT VALLEY LANE
               GAITHERSBURG, MD 20878

          Please include your registration fee of $10, and if you
     have one, a Compuserve or Prodigy ID at which I can contact
     you.  Also tell me what version you have, and where you got
     it from. I don't require it, but I would also like to know
     your age, and what kind of system you are running on. I will
     currently answer questions from anyone via CIS or Prodigy. 
     I can be reached at TGTM35B on Prodigy, or 76427,3305 on
     Compuserve. (Internet users can reach me at my Compuserve
     Address.)  I will currently answer written (non electronic)
     questions to the above address only if the asker includes a
     method of reply, such as a self addressed stamped envelope,
     or Prodigy or Compuserve ID. 
          If you reside outside the United States please pay the
     registration fee with a cashier's check or money order
     payable IN US FUNDS.  Canadian residents may send personal
     checks but please adjust for the difference between US and
     Canadian currencies.
          After registering you will become the legal owner of
     your copy of Tank Wars, and will be placed on my mailing
     list.  Whenever a new version is released, you will be
     notified of its release, its new features, and how to obtain
     it.  In addition to your $10 registration fee you may
     include at the time of registration an extra $3 to obtain
     the current version of Tank Wars at that time.  (Please
     specify disk size, 360KB, 720KB, or 1.44MB.)  If you prefer
     you can replace the $3 with a self addressed, stamped,
     floppy disk mailer containing a blank disk and I will place
     the current version of Tank Wars on it and drop it back in
     the mail to you.
          Once registered, you are to treat this software exactly
     as a commercial package that you had purchased.  The
     software and the disks on which it is contained are licensed
     to you, for your own use.  This is copyrighted software. 
     You are not obtaining title to the software or any copyright
     rights.  You may not sublicense, rent, lease, convey,
     modify, translate, convert to another programming language,
     decompile, or disassemble the software for any purpose.  Any
     copy made of this program for any person other than the
     registered user this copy is licensed to is to be treated as
     a shareware copy, and should be evaluated and registered
     accordingly. 

          I apologize for the capitalization, but the Uniform
     Commercial Code [UCC] states that implied warranties cannot
     be disclaimed unless the disclaimer conspicuously uses
     specific words.  All capital letters is commonly accepted as
     conspicuous (and rude, but that's another matter).

                This software is provided as-is.
         There are no warranties, expressed or implied.

     KENNETH MORSE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES RELATING TO THIS
     SOFTWARE, WHETHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
     LIMITED TO ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
     AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, AND ALL SUCH
     WARRANTIES ARE EXPRESSLY AND SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIMED.
     NEITHER KENNETH MORSE NOR ANYONE ELSE WHO HAS BEEN
     INVOLVED IN THE CREATION, PRODUCTION, OR DELIVERY OF
     THIS SOFTWARE SHALL BE LIABLE FOR ANY INDIRECT,
     CONSEQUENTIAL, OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE
     USE OR INABILITY TO USE SUCH SOFTWARE EVEN IF KENNETH
     MORSE HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
     DAMAGES OR CLAIMS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL KENNETH MORSE'S
     LIABILITY FOR ANY DAMAGES EVER EXCEED THE PRICE PAID
     FOR THE LICENSE TO USE THE SOFTWARE, REGARDLESS OF THE
     FORM OF CLAIM.  THE PERSON USING THE SOFTWARE BEARS ALL
     RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE SOFTWARE.
          Some states do not allow the exclusion of the
     limit of liability for consequential or incidental
     damages, so the above limitation may not apply to you.
          This agreement shall be governed by the laws of
     the State of Maryland and shall inure to the benefit of
     Kenneth Morse and any successors, administrators, heirs
     and assigns.  Any action or proceeding brought by
     either party against the other arising out of or
     related to this agreement shall be brought only in a
     STATE or FEDERAL COURT of the competent jurisdiction
     located in Montgomery County, Maryland.  The parties
     hereby consent to in personam jurisdiction of said
     courts.